# ICS209

ISC209s are forms submitted to the Federal Government to describe emergencies. St. Dennis et al have 
published code to clean and harmonize historical ICS209 data (their project is called ICS209-PLUS), 
but only publish the resulting data through 2020. To recreate and extend their procedure, we need to 
obtain the raw ICS209 summaries from USFS. The current year and historical summaries are kept separately.

"Current year" apparently means
fires that occur or are still occurring in the current year, so in order
to capture a hypothetical fire that ends on 12/31 we should be running the 
updated daily (or, at the very least, yearly on the last day of the year).

## Historical Summaries

You'll need to obtain approval to access the FAMWEB database from USFS IT. I contacted the contact for
FAMWEB listed on [wildfire.gov](https://www.wildfire.gov/contact-us). 

Visit [FamAuth](https://famauth.wildfire.gov/?PAGENAV=dashboard) and click the link for Data Warehouse. 
You may need to allow pop-ups. Follow the prompts to describe yourself, and submit a request for access
to the USFS official you're in contact with. 

Once approved, follow the FamAuth link again to access the FAM Cognos site. From here, click your user
icon on the upper left, select "Profile and Settings", then "My API Keys", and create a key to be 
used in the code. 

## Current Year Summaries

You can access current year summaries at https://famdwh-dev.nwcg.gov/sit209/cognos_report_queries/sit209_data_report.
Ask your contact at USFS IT to provide the current credentials, or contact [me](mailto:loganap@uw.edu). 

